% \documentclass[12pt]{article}
\documentclass[oneside,12pt]{amsart}

\usepackage{times}
\usepackage{geometry}
\geometry{letterpaper, portrait, margin=1in}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{enumitem,amssymb}
\usepackage{ragged2e}
\usepackage{graphicx}
\usepackage{natbib,latexsym,url,enumitem,pdfpages,multicol}
\usepackage{color}
\usepackage{wrapfig}
\usepackage{caption}
\usepackage{setspace}
\newlist{thematic}{itemize}{8}
\setlist[thematic]{label=$\square$}
\usepackage{pifont}
\newcommand{\cmark}{\ding{51}}%
\newcommand{\xmark}{\ding{55}}%
\newcommand{\done}{\rlap{$\square$}{\raisebox{2pt}{\large\hspace{1pt}\cmark}}%
\hspace{-2.5pt}}
\newcommand{\wontfix}{\rlap{$\square$}{\large\hspace{1pt}\xmark}}
%\usepackage[pagestyles]{titlesec}
%\titlespacing{\section}{0pt}{*0}{*0}
%\titlespacing{\subsection}{0pt}{0}{0}
%\titlespacing{\subsubsection}{0pt}{0}{0}

% Some fancy commenting
\definecolor{todo}{RGB}{200,0,0}
\newcommand{\comment}[2][todo]{{\color{#1}[[{\bf #2}]]}}

% User commands
\input{journaldefs}

\setlength{\parskip}{3pt}

\begin{document}
\raggedright
\huge
Astro2020 APC White Paper \linebreak

FOBOS: A Next-Generation Spectroscopic Facility \linebreak
\normalsize

\noindent \textbf{Thematic Areas:} Project Paper
  
\textbf{Principal Author:}

Name:	Kevin Bundy
 \linebreak						
Institution:  University of California, Observatories
 \linebreak
Email:  kbundy@ucolick.org
 \linebreak
Phone:  831-459-3539
 \linebreak
 
\textbf{Co-authors:} {\footnotesize K.~Bundy (PI, UCO/UCSC), K.~Westfall (Project
Scientist, UCO), N.~MacDonald (Lead Engineer, UCO), R.~Kupke
(Instrument Scientist, UCO), M.~Savage (Project Manager, UCO),
C.~Poppett (Fiber System Lead, UCB/SSL), A.~Alabi (UCSC), G.~Becker
(UCR), J.~Burchett (UCSC), P.~Capak (Caltech), A.~Coil (UCSD),
M.~Cooper (UCI), D.~Cowley (UCO), W.~Deich (UCO), D.~Dillon (UCO),
J.~Edelstein (LBNL), P.~Guhathakurta (UCSC), J.~Hennawi (UCSB),
K.-G.~Lee (IPMU), D.~Masters (JPL), T.~Miller (UCB/SSL), J.~Newman
(Pitt), J.~X.~Prochaska (UCSC), J.~Rhodes (JPL), R.~M.~Rich (UCLA),
C.~Rockosi (UCSC), A.~Romanowsky (SJSU/UCSC), D.~Schlegel (LBNL),
A.~Shapley (UCLA), B.~Siana (UCR), Y.-S.~Ting (IAS), D.~Weisz
(UCB), M.~White (UCB/LBNL), B.~Williams (UW), G.~Wilson (UCR),
M.~Wilson (LBNL), \& R.~Yan (UK)}
  \linebreak

\textbf{Abstract:} 

High-multiplex and deep spectroscopic follow-up of upcoming panoramic
deep-imaging surveys like LSST is a widely recognized and
increasingly urgent necessity. No current or planned facility at a
U.S.~observatory meets the sensitivity, multiplex, and rapid-response
time needed to exploit these future datasets. FOBOS, the Fiber-Optic
Broadband Optical Spectrograph, is a near-term fiber-based facility
that addresses these spectroscopic needs by optimizing depth over
area and exploiting the aperture advantage of the existing 10m Keck
II Telescope. The result is a uniquely blue-sensitive, high-multiplex
instrument with order-of-magnitude greater sampling density and a
factor 1.7 greater survey speed than Subaru's Prime Focus
Spectrograph (PFS). In the LSST era, FOBOS will excel at building the
deep, spectroscopic reference data sets needed to interpret vast
imaging data. At the same time, its flexible focal plane, including
deployable integral-field units (IFUs), enables an expansive range of
scientific investigations. Its key programmatic areas include, (1)
dramatic enhancements in cosmological constraints thanks to precise
photometric redshifts and determined redshift distributions, (2) a
complete description of the gaseous and galaxy environments leading
up to the peak era of galaxy formation ($z \approx 2$--5), (3) nested
stellar-parameter training sets that enable studies of the Milky Way
and M31 halo sub-structure, as well as local group dwarf galaxies,
and (4) rapid transient follow-up with a fixed-format IFU that, in
combination with Keck I instrumentation, provides instant access to
medium-resolution spectroscopy with full coverage from the UV to the
K-band.

\pagebreak


%% Executive Summary and Overview
\input{Astro2020-Overview}

\input{Astro2020-LocalGroup}
\input{Astro2020-Galaxies}
\input{Astro2020-Cosmology}
\input{Astro2020-DataScience}


\input{Astro2020-Description}

\input{Astro2020-Programmatic}


% \pagebreak
\clearpage
\begin{multicols}{2}
\scriptsize
\bibliographystyle{apj}
\bibliography{references}
\end{multicols}

% \textbf{References}



\end{document}
